[AUDIO LOGO]
>>JERRY KANTOR: People can
attack homeopathy for its
ideology-- they'd be wrong--
for its science, they'd
be wrong about that too
because it's highly scientific.
But for God's
sakes, don't bother
attacking it for its history.
The history is real.
Acupuncture is a mini, mini,
mini, mini, mini stabbing.
>>REGINA MEREDITH: You're right.
>>KANTOR: And homeopathy is
a mini, mini, mini, mini,
mini poisoning.
>>REGINA: --poisoning.
>>KANTOR: When people arrived
at the asylum, much of the time
they were malnourished
and exhausted.
So the first thing that
was done was to give them
a rest, put them in bed.
When they operated correctly,
they were even self-sufficient.
I call them utopias.
People think I'll just
take arnica for pain
or some kind of
musculoskeletal trauma.
But they don't know the deeper
meaning of arnica, which
is really quite interesting.
Vaccines are one-size-fits-all
no matter who you are,
how old you are.
Homeopathy is the functional
cousin of the vaccine.
You get a much,
much smaller amount.
>>REGINA: How often
do we drive by people
who've been discarded,
people on the street shouting
at passer-bys?
Maybe we're frightened
at the unpredictability
of the situation
or feel helpless.
There was a time when people
who lost their bearings
had a place to go, beautiful
settings, nurses, healthy food,
and as much time and bed rest as
needed as well as non-invasive
homeopathic cures.
And that's what we're going
to be talking about today.
So welcome, Jerry.
It's so good to
have you with us.
And we've been having
very spirited discussions
behind the scenes
about homeopathics.
Everybody's jumping in
wanting to know this and that.
And this is your passion?
>>KANTOR: Yes.
>>REGINA: You're a homeopath,
you're also an acupuncturist.
>>KANTOR: Yes.
>>REGINA: And these
two go nicely together.
Both of them are working
with energetic matrices.
>>KANTOR: Well, I
can say something
to fine-tune that a little bit.
>>REGINA: Please.
>>KANTOR: When I was
in junior high school,
I had a teacher
who said that there
was no definition of
life that didn't include
the idea of irritability.
>>REGINA: Irritability?
>>KANTOR: Irritability?
I said, that's pretty funny.
I was 14 years old or something.
Well, so both homeopathy
and acupuncture
work because they
exploit our irritability.
So acupuncture is a mini, mini,
mini, mini, mini stabbing.
>>REGINA: You're right.
>>KANTOR: And homeopathy is
a mini, mini, mini, mini,
mini poisoning.
>>REGINA: --poisoning.
>>KANTOR: So it comes
down to how you're poked
and then what comes out.
You wouldn't want to be
stabbed, and you wouldn't
want to be genuinely poisoned.
But both of these things
are very minimal, very,
very minimal traumas that give
the vital force an opportunity
to respond optimally.
And that has tremendous
repercussions.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And you know today
if you're reading
news feeds and such about
health and well-being,
you don't hear much
about homeopathy
unless it's about
the royal family.
The royal family are famous
for generationally turning
to homeopathics when they
need to overcome an illness,
balance themselves
out, live long.
And they are noted for
their long lifespans.
>>KANTOR: Yes.
>>REGINA: And I think
in part because they
do homeopathic cures
instead of going
for the invasive
allopathic medical route.
>>KANTOR: Yeah.
>>REGINA: But
that's all we hear.
The royal family does it,
and you know those kooks,
those eccentrics.
>>KANTOR: Unfortunately,
homeopathy
has been subject to a great
deal of mischaracterization
and disinformation.
And that's one reason
I was compelled
to write this book because--
>>REGINA: "Sane Asylums."
>>KANTOR: "Sane Asylums" so
that doesn't continue at least
at the historical level.
People can attack homeopathy
for its ideology--
they'd be wrong--
for this for its science
they'd be wrong about that too
because it's highly scientific.
But for God's
sakes, don't bother
attacking it for its history.
I didn't take those photographs.
I didn't read those--
I didn't write the
books that I researched.
The history is real,
and it has been
denied to the public
up until this point.
>>REGINA: It has been
completely obscured.
So first of all, let's
look at how far back
the history of homeopathy,
the practice of homeopathy
goes in the sense of
microdoses of like cures like.
>>KANTOR: Well the principle
goes back to Paracelsus.
But homeopaths would peg
the beginning of homeopathy
around 1796 when
Samuel Hahnemann wrote
his first papers about it.
And he just was an
incredible workaholic.
And he is still an amazing
source of information
about tremendous number of
remedies and how to make them.
He had tremendously
powerful proponents
like James Tyler
Kent and Constantine
Herring going into the late
parts of the 19th century.
But it's 200 years old.
It's been around.
>>REGINA: Let's
talk about it, just
its essence for a
moment for people
who aren't really familiar with
the nature of how it works.
The whole potentization
process, the fact
that really, there's
nothing oftentimes even
left of the original substance,
but that energetic imprint,
the information is there.
Talk to us about that.
>>KANTOR: Yeah.
Water is the miracle of life.
And energy imprints
on the molecules
of water impart
structure that is
perceived at many, many levels.
It's quite powerful.
>>REGINA: Masaru Emoto
did a lot to show
that in his photographs.
>>KANTOR: Yes, that's right.
And when you not just dilute
the substance, but when
you vigorously shake it--
we call the succussion--
that energizes the remedy.
>>REGINA: So you take
a little bit of remedy,
you put it in water?
>>KANTOR: We call--
>>REGINA: --water?
>>KANTOR: --a mother
tincture which
is a combination of
alcohol and water,
which has a discernible
amount of the substance, which
can be a botanical, it could
be a chemical compound.
It could be almost anything
that you can dilute.
Otherwise, you
have to titrate it.
And then you take a few drops of
that and put that in solution.
And then you
vigorously shake it.
That's a succussion.
>>REGINA: And
that's really where
it's imparting the information
into the molecules?
>>KANTOR: Yes.
Yes.
And the more you do it-- that's
the strange thing about it--
the more you do it, the more
powerful the remedy becomes.
And at least when the
matching is correct,
the lower potency of the remedy
have a more general effect,
but they're not as long-lasting.
So you have to repeat them.
But the higher potency remedies
have this very, very strong,
energetic imprint.
So it's a high
stakes bet when you
give that to somebody exactly.
The homeopath should know
exactly what they're doing.
But then you get the
most maximal effect.
>>REGINA: So are you talking
about when you say highest
potency--
so here, first we're
talking about when
it's diluted, diluted,
diluted to the point
where no original molecules
of the original substance
are left.
>>KANTOR: That's right.
>>REGINA: But there's a highly
potent body of information
that's been encoded.
>>KANTOR: Yes.
>>REGINA: Does
that have anything
to do with potency as we
see it in the drugstore?
6, 30, 200.
>>KANTOR: 60 Is low potency.
This X range remedies
are by far the lowest.
The Seltzers will be
basically 6x remedies.
60 is low, 30 is
higher, and that
will have a substantive effect
but not be as strong as a 200.
The 200 and the 1 Ms
and so forth beyond that
are generally not
sold in the stores
because you should
really know what you're
doing when you give them,
which is to say that something
at a high level may produce an
aggravation, which is a healing
crisis.
And if you're not
familiar with that,
then you better be
working with somebody.
You wouldn't want to
do that on your own.
>>REGINA: I might 200 cc's,
but it's usually arnica.
>>KANTOR: Arnica, yeah.
>>REGINA: Let's
talk-- now, that's
one thing most people watching
this certainly understand.
Will they know arnica for its
anti-inflammatory properties?
But you say it goes
far beyond that.
>>KANTOR: I do.
And so that's typical
of what's happened
in the marketing of
something like that.
People think, I'll just
take arnica for pain
or some kind of
musculoskeletal trauma,
but they don't know the deeper
meaning of arnica, which
is really quite interesting.
It's a mountain laurel, so it
grows high in the mountains.
And that relates a little
bit to what it actually
does at the energetic
or spiritual level.
I believe that there's
a level of consciousness
that we all have that is
invested in our intactness.
>>REGINA: Like a perfected
template of sorts.
Or is trying to
find its way back
to a state of balance or yeah.
>>KANTOR: We all need
to do that, yeah.
But let's say you have
a serious injury where
you're losing a lot of blood
or you've had an amputation
or you've been in a
severe car accident,
you go into a state of shock.
And this level of
consciousness says, the facts
don't much match
my understanding.
This person I'm inhabiting
here should be intact.
And that's not the case.
>>REGINA: The were
missing a toenail.
>>KANTOR: So I leave.
I leave.
So a level of consciousness
leaves the body briefly.
And so the person will say,
I'm OK, when they're not.
And that's the key
note of arnica.
So that's a deeper understanding
of that remedy than someone
who just thinks, oh, this
will help me to repair.
When the soul is pulled back--
this level of consciousness
is pulled back into
the body, healing
is much more possible
than when it's not there.
And so that's why
arnica actually works.
>>REGINA: Because it
helps pull that portion
>>KANTOR: It pulls that--
>>REGINA: So that's why
it's used-- which I just
learned very recently-- is used
for emotional trauma as well.
>>KANTOR: Because
in emotional trauma,
when you think that a state of
shock is an emotional trauma--
>>REGINA: Yeah, absolutely.
>>KANTOR: We are not able to
process some kinds of shock.
If you're watching a murder
or you're in a car which that
would completely flipped over
or if you've gotten a really
serious injury, you cannot
possibly process that
at the moment.
So we are designed so that
we go into a state of shock
so that later on we
can deal with it.
If you meet somebody who goes
in who's feeling like that,
you say, wow, that's
a really strong person
said nothing happened.
Everything's OK.
That's not accurate.
They're in a state of shock.
>>REGINA: Right.
They're in that numb place.
>>KANTOR: You're right.
If you meet them
a few weeks later
and then they're
starting to process it
and they're weeping
and wailing, you
don't say, oh, what a weakling.
They can't handle this?
You don't do that.
But basically, you
heal when your soul
is completely in your
body when you're grounded
and when this level of
consciousness is fully there.
And that's what arnica does.
>>REGINA: Well, that's profound.
Much more profound
than taking care of--
I take it for dental work.
>>KANTOR: Well when you're
having significant dental work,
a little bit of
that is going on.
You're a little bit
out of your body.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And it actually helps very much.
I find it helps a lot.
So OK, now that we've kind
of gotten a couple of the pop
things on the table,
let's start getting
into the story a little bit.
And what I was so
interested and reading
"Sane Asylums" was
looking at where
we are right now compared to
where this kind of healing
was once upon a time.
And especially--
I live in Sacramento,
California.
And one of the things that
many, many cities have seen
is a much higher incidence of
homelessness and encampments,
where people are sleeping
out in the cold everywhere
under every overpass.
They're everywhere just
trying to find some place
to stay out of the wind
and the rain with people
ranting and people
on drugs trying
to self-soothe and alcohol.
And there's no place for them.
Well, they're trying to
build big places actually.
But right now, it's so
overwhelming the mental health
crisis and there's
nowhere for them to go.
There's no one
looking after them.
There's nothing in place.
How do you see that
as someone that
does what you do with such
great care for a living?
>>KANTOR: Well, that's
a huge question.
I mean, the homeless do have
a lot of mental health issues.
That's true.
I will tell you that
in my own practice,
and people getting
are presenting
as sicker and sicker
because of an epidemic
of autoimmune conditions because
of the effects of the drugs
that people are on.
People are sicker.
And so it's harder for us
homeopaths to deal with them.
And there's always the risk of
they're regressing and going
back to their drugs because
they don't heal quickly enough
and we have to detox them.
So back to your question,
what we fantasize about
is having an asylum where we
can have people 24 hours a day
and take care of them
so that we can get them
through those crises
and not lose them back
to the conventional means.
There's a real need for
asylum care for people.
But this is an era
that's quite bygone.
Basically now we drug people up.
We do the opposite.
We send them back to their
community like zombies,
and we relinquish
our opportunity
to work with them to grapple
with their mental illness
at the level of what
used to be called
moral hygiene, intense
discussions with people,
listening to them
very carefully.
The nurses at the
Middletown Hospital
that I write about under the
direction of Clara Barrus
were just paragons.
They were amazing people.
>>REGINA: Oh, yes.
We're going to get
into her story.
Amazing people.
>>KANTOR: She's a
lot to talk about.
>>REGINA: Yeah, there is.
>>KANTOR: And we would love
to have some places that we
can care take people so that
we can work with them long term
and not lose them.
So there's a number
of reasons why
we would like to have
facilities like that again.
And they could be staffed
by nurses, acupuncturists,
the pastors, chaplains.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Especially nurses,
much overlooked.
>>KANTOR: Yes.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: And really,
some of the people-- well,
certainly
historically-- that were
key to the healing processes
of people in the day,
it was nurses, really.
And so I just want to go off of
one thing you said right now,
these days you're seeing
more and more people
with autoimmune problems.
I have to ask you this.
All around the world, we've
had global vaccine programs
where we've gotten all different
mish mashes of vaccines.
Has this had anything to do with
the change in our biochemistry
or the functioning of our
immune system that you can see?
>>KANTOR: Well, I'm
afraid so, yeah.
>>REGINA: Just across the board?
>>KANTOR: Across the board.
People--
>>REGINA: We're
now getting into--
>>KANTOR: It's a
troubling problem.
I mean, vaccinations are
the dysfunctional cousin
of homeopathy to
put it very mildly.
>>REGINA: Explain that.
What is a vaccine?
>>KANTOR: I mean, a
vaccine works basically
on the idea of using to
like to prevent like.
You get a small dose of cowpox
so that you don't get smallpox.
That's the law of similars
that homeopaths work on.
And the first vaccine by
Jenner, which the word vax comes
from cow was to give people
a small dose of cowpox,
which prevented them from
getting a more serious illness.
That was inoculation and pretty
close to how homeopathy works,
except homeopathy when
they made that medicine,
made it much more dilute.
So the big difference is,
vaccines are one-size-fits-all.
No matter who you
are, how old you are,
you get the same darn thing.
And also much too much of it.
>>REGINA: Well, that's
what I was going to say.
It's not like a
diluted compound.
>>KANTOR: So when
you dilute something,
you're actually going through
the process of making it
of matching you
as an individual,
whether when you practice--
>>REGINA: Versus
actually infecting you.
[LAUGHTER]
>>KANTOR: The acupuncturists
and homeopaths
have this experience in common.
Someone will show up
and say, oh, Jerry I
fall between all the cracks.
I just don't fit any category.
What can you do for me?
And I always say, well, to a
homeopath, everyone's a crack.
We want to work on individually.
We're not interested in
putting you in a box.
Your diagnosis does
not define you.
So yeah, homeopathy
is the functional--
I would say the functional
cousin of the vaccine
is that you get a much,
much smaller amounts of what
matches you.
And that can prevent
another kind of a problem.
And it's perfectly matched--
should be ideally matched
to what's going on with you
at the mental, emotional, and
physical level.
>>REGINA: So you should
theoretically not
have any of these side
effects or problems
with a society of people with
plummeting immune systems.
That should not be coming
out of homeopathy that's not.
>>KANTOR: Absolutely not.
That cannot happen.
>>REGINA: That cannot happen.
>>KANTOR: No.
>>REGINA: So let's talk about
one of the things in your book
when you're speaking
about these places
that we're going
to go into now that
were in existence in
the late 1700s and 1800s
into the early 1900s,
these bucolic settings,
these asylums to foster sanity.
A lot of these people had--
they had malnutrition
on one level or another.
So a lot of it was
really what was
lacking in the diet
that was causing
a lot of these
mental imbalances.
And I would think in
the day, maybe exposure
to metals and toxins we didn't
really understand at the time,
right?
>>KANTOR: One of
the rabbit holes
I had to explore when
writing this book
was the difference in
madness in that era from now.
And so rather than try to
engage with that question
in every other
sentence of the book,
I created a compendium
of madness perspectives
in my appendix so I
can refer to that.
But yeah, things were
very, very different.
When people arrived at the
asylum, much of the time,
they were malnourished
and exhausted.
So the first thing that was
done was to give them a rest,
put them in bed, give them
really good nutrition,
which state of the
art at the time
involved warm milk
was one of the--
>>REGINA: Warm milk was
really prominent, yeah.
>>KANTOR: And the milk was a
high quality and after that--
>>REGINA: Directly
from the cows,
not pasteurized and all that.
>>KANTOR: That's right.
That's right.
Also these asylums work
best when they weren't like
2,000-person,
2,000-bed facilities,
which is what they grew into
later on and which turned out
to be their demise because
how can you do really good
homeopathy with 2,000 clients?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KANTOR: But yeah, bit by
bit, they were really nurtured.
They were told, you're going
to be here indefinitely,
we're going to get you together.
We're not going to rush you back
into your dysfunctional family
or into the community.
We're going to let
you engage in things
that are absolutely pleasurable
and beneficial to you,
let you work on a craft, let
you participate in the garden,
let you listen to and
create music, write letters.
Clara Barrus, who's one
of the heroes of my book--
there is the other Clara
Bar-- was Clara Barton, who
was the very, very famous
angel of the battlefield
in my opinion, had this
counterpart in Clara Barrus who
was wrote this fantastic book
called "Nursing the Insane."
A fantastic book,
really brilliant book,
very compassionate person.
And so she would have them
engage in giggle classes,
get people to laugh.
>>REGINA: Giggle.
Yeah, giggle therapy.
>>KANTOR: Giggle classes.
It was one thing she did.
But she had just tremendous
respect for the mentally ill.
And she imparted
that to the nurses.
So as I say, they
engaged with the clients
actively in terms of trying to
release them from the delusions
that they had with
patience and kindness.
It was very different from
the nursing obligations today.
Nurses are wonderful
today, but they
don't have the time
or the opportunity
and this just does
not happen anywhere,
not in a psychiatrist
office, not
in any of these
mental health clinics.
>>REGINA: Because no one's
given that valuable commodity
of time.
>>KANTOR: Yes.
>>REGINA: And when you
write about her and some
of the other nurses, it's
like as you said earlier,
they're like paragons of virtue.
And she wrote a directive on
what a good nurse ought to be.
Maybe you can share a
little bit of that with us.
>>KANTOR: Better if you
read her actual words.
She's quite a good writer.
But--
>>REGINA: She was, yeah.
>>KANTOR: --basically being
free from discouragement,
paying very close
attention to the clients,
to their cleanliness, being
very observant to what they did
and what they said, not
engaging them with arguments.
A lot of it's advanced
placement common sense.
How would you-- if you were
to deal with your client as
you would with a sick relative.
Kind of the same thing.
It's hugely compassionate.
>>REGINA: Very,
very compassionate.
So here you have
bucolic settings.
>>KANTOR: Yeah.
>>REGINA: This was
really-- nature
was part of it having space.
>>KANTOR: And there was
more nature around then.
They picked beautiful settings.
And they had a lot of land.
And homeopathy was not
controversial back then.
And the states would give
them huge land grants.
The states would
subsidize these places.
And when they're
operated correctly,
they were even self-sufficient.
I call them utopias like
the Middletown Asylum--
>>REGINA: Yes, very utopian.
>>KANTOR: --was able
to sustain itself.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about
that and Dr. Selden Talcott
in his role in all
of that because he's
another hero in the book.
>>KANTOR: Yeah.
He's a hero in my book.
So he was a Civil War physician,
had a very extensive training
in homeopathy.
He actually ran a homeopathic
alcoholism facility
in New York at Ward's Island,
just an absolutely wonderful,
hugely respected person,
disciple of a homeopath
by the name of
Samuel Lilienthal.
And he was the
second superintend
in Middletown Homeopathic
Hospital for the Insane
as it was called then.
And he was involved in
its every aspect of it--
well, the design was there,
but he refined that a lot.
But he ran a tight ship.
It was budgetary on target.
The thing that he did that
really made him stand out
was using baseball as a therapy.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
That's kind of where
your interest in this
started, right?
>>KANTOR: It was an
easy thing to do.
There was a baseball
field there.
And initially, some
of the staff members
and the doctors and the
patients played together.
And he noticed that
the patients there were
watching this very intently.
And he was an observant man.
He said, baseball seems
to make a difference.
They were all better when
they were watching baseball.
So he created this
fantastic team.
He poached players from local
teams and created this team,
not with the inmates
playing for it,
but to represent the asylum.
And the team was
called the Asylums.
And they were an
absolute powerhouse.
They had a future Hall
of Famer, Jack Chesbro.
And they played Major
League teams to a stand off,
and big crowds came
to watch the games.
And even the craziest
of the clients
would come out in rapt
attention watch this.
But he was also--
the Middletown
facility was what I
call the Mother Church
for this movement
because it was the really
most the biggest, the most
successful mental health asylum.
So many other psychiatrists,
homeopathic psychiatrists
went and did internships there.
And then they went and
worked at other facilities
like at Butler Asylum in
Providence, Fergus Falls
in Minnesota, Westborough.
And then when they completed
their careers there,
they would often open
small sanitariums,
private sanitariums.
But Talcott was just a
hugely respected homeopath.
We have in our material
medico, the software
for a practitioner, one of
his books that we refer to.
So he was a successful
man on many levels.
>>REGINA: So one thing
you talked about a little
bit ago was the alcoholism part.
So this I found
intriguing in the book.
Following the Civil War,
there was a huge issue
with alcoholism, just the
disorientation of coming back
from such an incredibly
brutal situation.
>>KANTOR: Yeah.
There's a book called
"The Empire of Suffering"
that goes into the carnage,
what the problems the Civil War
caused.
That was interesting for
me to learn about that.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>KANTOR: Back in those
days, I didn't know this,
people were deeply
invested in the idea
that of the resurrection
of the body physically.
Actually, when you died,
somehow through this belief
in Christianity, the body
would be resurrected.
And there was also
a high premium
put on the value of one's
last words as you were dying.
Dying was not such a
big deal as the fact
that you would give your
last words to describe
how your life was meaningful
and that you didn't mind dying.
The Civil War blew that apart.
The bodies could not be found.
When they were found,
they were obliterated.
There were very few inspiring
last words that were uttered.
The people went into a
gigantic crisis of grief.
And this is a primary reason
why all these mental hospitals
sprung up, and also,
I imagine alcoholism.
But the country was always
heavily into alcohol,
it was used--
people would drink--
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
I was reading about that, the
amount of alcohol per capita
that was drunk back then.
Holy cow!
>>KANTOR: There's a great
book called "Saloon Culture."
>>REGINA: They were
anesthetizing heavily
across the country,
men and women.
>>KANTOR: Yeah.
Yeah.
People drank heavily.
And that was a big problem.
And so what we now
call tardive dyskinesia
in those days was called--
had a different derivation.
Then it was delirium tremens,
late stages of alcoholism.
You'd just be sitting
there trembling.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
The shakes.
>>KANTOR: Yeah.
And homeopathy can
ameliorate that too somewhat.
There are books on homeopathic
treatment of inebriation.
But getting to an absolute
cure when you're that far gone
is a bridge too far.
>>REGINA: What about
drug addiction?
>>KANTOR: What, today or then?
>>REGINA: No, today.
Homeopathic approaches to
breaking drug addictions.
>>KANTOR: Yeah.
Absolutely, we do that.
We have to detox someone.
Well, that would be a
combination of actually using--
making homeopathic
preparation from the drug
that has addicted you so that
you can gradually wean yourself
from it.
At the same time, you would--
>>REGINA: Kind of
like nicotine patches
almost, but not exactly.
>>KANTOR: People confuse
homeopathy with lots of things.
So it's not
desensitization therapy,
although when you're using the
dilute versions of the drugs,
it is something like that.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>KANTOR: But then
you would also
incorporate the constitutional
remedy and other support
remedies and maybe remedies
made from neurotransmitters
to help the person
get to the other side.
But it's a matter of
creating a good game
plan as opposed to
saying, we're just
going to cure you
with this one remedy.
That's what I mean by people
being sicker than before.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
You just said something
I didn't know about.
Remedies made from
neurotransmitters?
>>KANTOR: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Tell us a little bit
about that because right now,
we've got all kinds of issues
going on with our brain.
Our brains.
>>KANTOR: Well, the avatar of
that is a homeopath in Holland
by the name of Ton Jansen.
And his brand of
homeopathy is probably
going to revolutionize
the field.
It's practiced
extensively in Europe.
And my colleague, Ruma
Biswas is a proponent of his.
And that takes a lot of work.
when you create a program for
somebody who's really sick
and you want to intervene with
them in terms of detoxing them
from the medications they've
taken, supporting them
with neurotransmitter remedies.
This is very much a field
that's developing at the moment.
So she's doing more
of that than I am.
I'm still the
classical practitioner
who prefers to work
with single remedies
and really delve the
psychological profile.
But this is an important--
this is an emerging
development in homeopathy,
very similar to what
I would say is what
happened with functional
medicine in
conventional medicine.
Functional medicine developed
outside the medical schools,
outside the internal
medicine program,
but based on the work
of Geoffrey Bland.
And it's really taken off.
So this is sort of a parallel.
This is like functional
medicine within homeopathy.
>>REGINA: Does
functional medicine
employ the use of homeopathics?
>>KANTOR: No.
Not conventionally.
No.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>KANTOR: But it's a functional
way, a systems-wide way
of looking at a client as
opposed to breaking you down
like in a gastroenterologist
for your gastric system,
a psychiatrist for your
mind, and a neurologist
for your nerves.
At least within
conventional medicine
there was this attempt
to look at someone
at a functional level.
But the problem there
still is the consciousness,
which is so central to how
homeopathy works, who you are,
what has happened to you at
the level of consciousness,
that is not part of functional
medicine as I know it.
You're still sort of treated
like a mechanical object.
>>REGINA: It's anecdotal.
>>KANTOR: Yeah.
In homeopathy, who
you are consciously,
experiences that you've
had, what has traumatized,
what your hot button is--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I was just going
to ask you, that's
the first question
you ask people.
>>KANTOR: Well,
it's not the first,
but it's an important one.
I let them talk and let my
clients talk for quite a while
before I ask that because I want
to get at my own sense of what
it might be.
But yeah, it's a very
important question to ask.
>>REGINA: What's
your hot button?
What's really sets you off?
>>KANTOR: There's two ways
of asking that question.
Yeah.
What's your least favorite
situation to be in?
Let's say you're
in that situation
that I had a video camera on
you, what would I see in here?
What would you do after
your button is pushed?
Do you get drunk?
Do you punch
somebody in the nose?
Do you write a poem?
Do you overeat?
Do you withdraw into your room?
Do you get irritable?
What do you do?
That question has-- it's a
very, very powerful question.
>>REGINA: Because this
is also associated
with what might show
up as illness in them?
>>KANTOR: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Homeopathy is one-stop shopping.
That is my entryway
into somebody.
It's funny how hard it
is to get this clear.
The mind and the body are
absolutely inseparable as far
as this kind of work goes.
>>REGINA: OK.
Let's talk about one
of the most common
and ubiquitous
conditions to humanity,
and it's psychospiritual, and
it goes deep, back, back, back.
And that is the
fear of abandonment.
>>KANTOR: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Talking about
that, how would you
approach that with a
person, the fear of abandon?
>>KANTOR: I wish you had given
me another hour and a half.
It takes the case of--
>>REGINA: Well, take
5 or 10 minutes.
You've got time.
>>KANTOR: OK.
You know I've got a book
coming out next year
called the "Emotional Causes
of Chronic Illness Homeopathy
for Existential Stress."
So abandonment would be one
of those existential issues.
It doesn't just mean--
we're using that word a lot
these days because
of climate change
and we say, oh, my God,
we're all going to die.
But existential actually
means many, many more things
psychologically.
So abandoned, if I was
taking someone's case
and this was coming up,
that one word would not
give me the remedy.
I would actually want
the person to tell me
the story of their abandonment.
And I'd find out whether
they were actually orphaned
or if someone was just a
completely unavailable parent.
Or was there a sibling who
was responsible for them
who betrayed them.
I mean, there's so
many parts of that.
>>REGINA: Each one that creates
a different kind of feeling
or experience, those nuances.
>>KANTOR: Yeah.
I mean, I'd have to teach
you homeopathy about it,
but I'll give you some
examples, remedies
that talk about abandonment.
If you needed a remedy
like magnesium carbonicum
or magnesium moriadicum.
One flavor of abandonment
there would be your parents
would have been fighting
all the time, fighting
and at each other's throats.
And that would have created
a great sense of insecurity
for you.
And you would have become
a peacemaker, a terrible--
and you would have you'd be
prone to big ups and downs.
Part of that picture,
you might become
as a result of that or
a reflection of that
have a problem with
gluten and with dairy
and be very, very up and down.
That's the piece that
would be someone who
feels like they are an orphan.
They might not have
actually been an orphan.
>>REGINA: So that's kind of
under that very big umbrella
of various forms of abandonment.
>>KANTOR: Yeah.
Now, the poster
child for abandonment
is a remedy called pulsatilla.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
>>KANTOR: OK?
Pulsatilla, and it's mostly
for women or if men needed it,
it would be boys up
to the age of 12.
And that's a feeling
of really genuinely,
oh, you don't love me.
I mean, you don't
love me anymore.
You're not there.
And so people who
need that remedy,
they cry at the drop
of a hat and they're
also prone to sinus infection.
But there's also things
that are good about them
that we don't want
to change them,
but they actually are clues.
Someone who needs pulsatilla
will love to be outdoors,
they will love fresh air.
They'll have a very
sympathetic quality.
You don't want to change
that, but you relate to that.
You feel that as a
homeopath with someone.
Use your own feelings.
This person is very sympathetic.
I mean, their whole
being cries out to me.
If someone has an
annoying personality,
we don't dismiss them say,
I don't want to treat you.
We say, oh, that's
my feeling you.
I have to use that here.
Why am I feeling that
from this person?
What are they projecting?
Well, is the
pulsatilla the person
is very sympathetic
and very lovable
and you just want to
go give them a hug.
But this is a very
stereotypical kind of a picture.
Homeopathy has many--
>>REGINA: We're all
cracks, as you say.
>>KANTOR: All cracks.
But it's also what
we now might call
political incorrectness
is that much of the time,
it comes up for blondes.
It's not my choice.
It's just it's a certain
kind of a picture.
>>REGINA: Kind of
overly empathetic,
fear of abandonment,
and all of this.
>>KANTOR: Other kinds
of abandonment remedies.
Yeah.
I'll tell you this, this is
really interesting in terms
of, to me, existential
issues even for children,
OK, because I just came
upon this the other day.
There's a remedy
whose keynote is
fear of falling
forward, falling down.
And it's a major
remedy for children.
It's called borax.
Well, for a child the
feeling of being put down
is an existential problem
because it means separation
from the mother.
So I have this one
child who I tried
to give borax to the other day.
She's actually I think
12 years old now.
But this remedy, this
state has come up.
And when I discussed
it with her mother,
we talked about how at
birth this particular child
right after birth she
had had a heart defect.
And she had to
have surgery, and.
She was tremendously congested
and whenever she was put down,
she wailed and
wailed and wailed.
So the feeling of it's not
just a mechanical thing
being falling forward.
When you deconstruct it or
you do some excavation of it,
you find it has its roots in
a problem like being put down.
So for a child, for an
infant being put down
face down in the crib may
mean-- not for every child--
but it may mean an
existential crisis
like I'm going to be separated.
And separation anxiety
is part of that.
That remedy does not come
up very much for adults.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
So you almost have to be
a psychiatrist, a psychic.
And all of this to be able--
because what you're doing
is almost getting kind of
alchemical transformation
in people.
>>KANTOR: I don't mind
being called an alchemist.
I don't mind at all.
>>REGINA: That's what
it seems like to me.
>>KANTOR: Because
homeopaths have
to have a very
intimate understanding
of these substances.
So almost like saying, I know
the consciousness of iron,
I know the consciousness
of aluminum.
Because I know when
people have gone
through a homeopathic proving
where they've ingested that
over a consistent period
of time, what mental,
emotional mindset is created.
And frankly, this goes
beyond what psychiatrists do.
>>REGINA: Far beyond.
>>KANTOR: Far and beyond that.
Yeah, I don't mind being
called an alchemist.
>>REGINA: OK.
So Paracelsus, you
say that's kind
of where it started,
was an alchemist,
was noted as being alchemist.
So this is kind of baked
into the cake of homeopathy
if you're doing your job well.
>>KANTOR: Yes.
Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>KANTOR: It's
really psychological.
It's probably the deepest
form of psychology
that you can possibly encounter.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it's
absolutely fascinating.
OK.
So now back in the day, let's
go to the case of Mary Lincoln
Todd because it's--
or Mary Todd Lincoln--
it's absolutely fascinating.
In history, they don't
treat her kindly basically
saying she was bat,
you know, crazy.
Let's talk about what
was going on with her,
what the symptoms
were, and what happened
before and after her
husband's assassination,
and ultimately what
helped cure her.
>>KANTOR: Yeah, this is a--
>>REGINA: Because they did
have these wonderful places
back then.
>>KANTOR: This is a very
complex story, but I--
>>REGINA: It's fascinating.
>>KANTOR: --I think I figured
something out about it.
Poor Mary Todd Lincoln,
she was from the south,
so she was a pariah in
Lincoln's White House
just being from the south,
her family had owned slaves.
She lost in-laws
in the Civil War.
She had a serious head injury
falling from a carriage.
She was trolled by
William Danforth, who
wrote these - this one
article that she was not
Lincoln's first love.
>>REGINA: Oh, he tortured her.
>>KANTOR: And then, of
course, losing two children
and having her husband
murdered right next to her.
She went quite nuts.
And the accounts of
that are very graphic.
And her son, Robert Lincoln,
was worried about her.
And he decided she needed to
be treated or put someplace,
and she resisted this.
And so there was a trial,
a sensational trial
of her sanity.
14 doctors testified.
There was absolutely no question
that she was highly delusional.
She had thought there were wires
being pulled out of her eyes.
She thought that the city
of Chicago was burning down.
>>REGINA: Totally lost her plot.
Yeah.
>>KANTOR: She was completely
very delusional upset.
So yeah, she.
Was found incurably insane
and a number of the doctors
there on the panel-- a number
of them who were homeopaths
said, let's send it over
to Richard Patterson.
He's got a little
asylum in Bellevue,
Illinois called the
Batavia Institute.
Let's send her to him.
Now, what was curious about him?
He was a moral
care practitioner.
Moral care is a high level of
hand-holding, being respectful.
Officially no drugging at all.
I mean, that's what
world care was.
So history gives us two stories
about Mary Todd Lincoln.
And they both are
equally preposterous.
One was, well, that
report about her madness,
that can't be right.
She was really never
crazy in the first place.
That's impossible.
The records speak
for themselves.
And the other one was, well,
OK, yeah, she was pretty upset.
And she just needed
some peace and quiet.
And then these two lawyers
got involved with her.
And they sprung her.
And that's what happened there.
Both accounts are ridiculous.
So I focused on what actually
happened at the Batavia
Institute with
Richard Patterson, who
was not officially a homeopath.
>>REGINA: Officially?
>>KANTOR: He was not
officially a homeopath.
>>REGINA: You keep
saying officially.
>>KANTOR: Well, because
people did declare themselves.
At that time, it was still
a big paradigm bottle.
The homeopaths were making
all the money, by the way.
And the regular doctors
were annoyed by that.
That's why the AMA was formed.
If I was living in that time, I
might have been pretty wealthy.
>>REGINA: Interesting because
the tables have certainly
reversed on that one.
>>KANTOR: Yeah.
And I think the allopaths
have said, well,
we're never going to let
them eat our lunch again.
And that's never
going to happen again.
But anyway, these
homeopaths, they said,
go see Richard Patterson.
It was like wink, wink.
They knew something.
Now, Patterson, he was
a shrewd character.
He did not keep records.
But what I did
find out about him,
he used some remedies,
the medicines
that were popular at that
time, which is unquestionably
quoted for homeopathy.
That's the closest they
can come to admitting it.
His asylum, by the way,
opened almost exactly the time
that the Middletown Asylum
opened in Middletown, New York.
This was homeopathy at
its absolute zenith.
And there was poaching
across the borders.
People wanted to
help their clients,
and they had control over
how much of substance
would be used.
And the allopaths
were constantly
using homeopathic dosage
remedies but not admitting it.
And Patterson, I think, was
the perfect example of that.
In any case, within four
months, Mary Todd Lincoln
is sitting on his porch,
writing letters to her friends,
talking to his children,
just perfectly fine.
>>REGINA: Not stark
raving mad anymore.
>>KANTOR: Not stark raving.
And then she was declared
with these lawyers
that declared perfectly sane.
She had many problems.
And I'm quite sure
that among other things
that Richard Patterson
would have detoxed her
from chloral at that time.
And there are many
remedies I can imagine
that he could have used.
But it's a story
that's not been told.
I'll challenge anyone to show
me a history of Mary Todd
Lincoln where
there's information
about Richard Patterson.
By the way, when I
was researching this,
by funny chance, my
wife's a realtor,
so she got a kick out of this.
As I'm researching this,
his Italianate mansion
came on the market in Illinois.
And I'm looking at it.
I got to look at it.
It was beautiful.
He was quite well-off.
>>REGINA: Yeah, he
did well with his--
>>KANTOR: He did well with--
>>REGINA: --unofficial remedies.
>>KANTOR: I would like
to have bought it.
>>REGINA: So let's
talk about this.
First of all, you've worked
with people with autism.
Now, this is something
that's rising
by the minute in numbers.
You have worked with autism--
>>KANTOR: Oh, yes.
>>REGINA: --in homeopathics.
>>KANTOR: Yes.
>>REGINA: Let's
just talk about that
for a moment because
many of the people that
are watching right now
have people in their lives
who are on the spectrum.
>>KANTOR: Yeah.
And I wrote a book called
"Autism Reversal Toolbox"
about four years
ago at which time
I thought it was a pretty
comprehensive take on what
you could use from
the homeopathic world
to address that problem.
>>REGINA: Because again,
it's psycho spiritual--
spiritual--
>>KANTOR: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: --in its base.
>>KANTOR: Yeah.
And we also go into legacies.
There are things that go on--
we didn't drop as an apple
from the tree completely
independent of the tree.
There are definitely
legacies that
would contribute to
someone's susceptibility
to being born with a propensity
for becoming autistic.
Oh, boy.
It's such an extensive intake.
At that time, I brought I
brought into my practice
a few interns to help me to do
the initial intakes on autism
because we want to
go into the legacies,
we want to go into everything
that happened at the time
during the pregnancy,
during delivery.
So the drugs that the
mother was on matter a lot.
The traumas that were
going on at that time
when you're in utero,
they absolutely
have an effect on
the unborn child.
And then, of course, the
vaccinations that have come up.
So I've had physicians come
to me say very frankly,
Jerry, this is my
vaccine-injury child.
They will tell me--
>>REGINA: Physicians.
>>KANTOR: They would know.
And sometimes, it's
absolutely, absolutely clear
that after certain
vaccinations, absolutely
lost all speech, lost their
vocabulary, lost eye contact.
So we take all that
stuff into consideration
and we create a game plan,
which is, again, in this case,
we can't do a single
remedy and say sure it's
going to be perfectly fine.
And also if you say, well,
homeopathy doesn't cure autism.
Absolutely not.
In most cases, we've had some
really very, very good results.
But for a family with
an autistic child,
if a child who could not
make any eye contact suddenly
is doing that or they're
suddenly asking questions
when they never ask questions
or they're completely impossible
behavior becomes
much more manageable,
these are enormous gains.
>>REGINA: And you
notice improvements.
>>KANTOR: If a child
goes completely insane
when he sees a vacuum
cleaner and suddenly it's OK,
these small changes that if you
don't have an autistic child,
you wouldn't think are such
a big deal for a family
like that are a very big deal.
So we work with these children
for quite a long time.
And in my book, I
actually some case
histories where the toxic
influences were not that severe
and I was able to get cures.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>KANTOR: The diagnosis of
originally on the spectrum,
they were not on that anymore.
Well, they might
want to retain it
so they continue
to get supportive
services for themselves.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Gotcha.
Gotcha on that one.
So we just have a couple
of minutes left and right
now as I started the show saying
there are so many people who
are losing their
bearings who just
can't find their way anymore.
And it can be from a
variety of reasons,
but we're just seeing more
kind of anxiety rising
within almost every family.
You've some kind of
anxiety disorder.
What's your recommendation from
this alchemical, holistic point
of view of where we begin and
what we can do for ourselves
to start kind of
bringing ourselves back
into an integrated state
emotionally and mentally.
>>KANTOR: Well, I would
say find a good homeopath,
someone who's been certified
by the Council for Homeopathic
Certification or maybe
the North American
Society for Homeopaths.
And start to enter
into that mindset.
One of the things that is
very liberating about working
with a homeopath is that you
begin to look at your illness
very, very differently.
It's not something that's
random that comes out
came out of the blue.
Maybe a mechanic would love to
have his car break so he can
have the pleasure of fixing it.
When you enter into
this world, you
get very interested in
how you got like that
and what remedies do.
On one level, it's very humble.
It just increases
your perspective.
You said things that were
very bothersome or obsessions
or really constant
anxieties, they kind of go
into your rearview mirror.
And you say, what
was that all about?
So your gain of perspective
is good in itself,
but that also leads--
that's really a deep
part of your healing.
So overcoming the fear
of disease, which has,
of course, tremendous
economic value--
if we're afraid
all the time, we're
going to be susceptible
to every kind of campaign
for every kind of crazy
drug, every kind of vaccine.
We're very, very susceptible.
It's great for the economy.
But it is not good
for us individually.
Homeopathic remedies
are not patented.
Consider this, regular
drugs are patented
and someone has to recoup.
>>REGINA: They're cheap.
>>KANTOR: They're cheap.
Someone has to recoup the
enormous investment that
was made to get them
through the FDA.
If you subtract that,
what do you have?
>>REGINA: Very
affordable remedies.
>>KANTOR: Yes, they're
very affordable.
But my goal in this
lifetime is to get
people to learn about them, to
reintroduce a hijacked history
so that people are not
deluded and thinking
that they have no choice.
There is a choice, but we
have to fight for homeopathy.
We have to insist on it.
>>REGINA: I agree.
This is something that you're
not going to go to your HMO
and have pointed out to you.
>>KANTOR: That's right.
>>REGINA: So well, thank you
for your lifetime of work.
And when your new book comes out
about homeopathy and emotions?
>>KANTOR: Yes.
>>REGINA: What's
it called again?
>>KANTOR: "The Emotional Roots
of Chronic Illness, Homeopathy
for Existential Stress."
And I can, for the most
remedies that I use,
explain the existential
issue that's
at the root of your particular
illness at one particular time.
>>REGINA: That's wonderful.
I love it.
We have to be up for some
forensics, though, and digging
into ourselves.
>>KANTOR: Spiritual forensics.
>>REGINA: Spiritual forensics.
Well, that's what you
are, an alchemist,
a spiritual forensic artist.
>>KANTOR: I'm good with that.
>>REGINA: Yeah, good.
Thank you so much, Jerry.
And we'll see you again
when the new book comes out.
>>KANTOR: Thank you
very much, Regina.
What a pleasure to be here.
>>REGINA: Thank you.
I hope this has been
helpful for you.
You can pick up a copy of
Jerry's book, "Sane Asylums"
at any major bookseller.
You can go on to
wholehealthnow.com also
to learn more about
how to approach
mental and physical health
in a kinder and gentler way
with homeopathy.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."